Admission And Enrollment 
Module Workflow : 
 
applicant login to the system( from authentication module) 
↓ 
applicant choose course for Brochure_Request (academic module gives list of courses to select) 
↓ 
( here our role begins of admission module) 
Brochure created, applicant get brochure and needs to pay 200rs fee for that 
(after fee payment confirmation from fee module) 
↓ 
Application generated as per applicant selected course and brochure fee are Paid  
↓ 
Applicant fill all there details (personal, parents, educational, uploads documents required for 
admission, like adhar, caste certificate, domicile, leaving/transfer certificate etc, all past  
qualification result from 10th grade to required for current admission course) 
↓ 
Applicant submits admission form ( applicant needs to ensure all details were right ? after once 
it get submit ,it can't change later anything in application, so applicant needs to check everything 
is alright before submitting the form, applicant side is done) 
↓ 
Application_Review admin check the application after submitted by applicant (admin action 
begins) 
↓ 
Admin requests correction or approves if needs, send back to the applicant and then 
applicant can change the application form details because admin gives them permission to 
change the application form 
↓ 
Admission_Fee need to pay to complete the admission process 
↓ 
Status updated in Application_Status 
(Note: Each and every time when actions perform by the 'applicant' or 'admin', the process 'state' 
they're working on needs to be seen in our system even when they filling details and also there 
time when they modify or update anything ,also who change that information admin or applicant, 
everything needs to be in record of our system.) 
↓ 
when all the details were filled right by applicant and fee's are paid by the applicant, get 
everything tested by admin then 
↓ 
Enrollment created. 
 
 
So,this is basically flow of admission and enrollment module. Use created_at, updated_at 
timestamp for better traceability. And have clear understanding of every phase. 
We need Application_Status (Which tracks full lifecycle of the process of admission like, 
APP_INITIATED ,BROCHURE_SUBMITTED, APPLICATION_STARTED 
,APPLICATION_SUBMITTED, UNDER_REVIEW, REVISION_REQUIRED, REJECTED 
,APPROVED, every action needs to be get track and record in our system, Even when while 
filling the details applicant can see there state and completion details! ) 
 Also understand this- only focus on admission and enrollment module not in payments, 
authentication, courses details, notification, student response system(SRS)  it's others module 
work they'll go in depth of those concept we just need to create admission module in detail. 
Other modules are just part of our flow and we need them. We have to create user side which is 
applicant and admission side person which is admin. 
 
